    “Non‐governmental monitoring of local governments increases compliance with central mandates:
A national‐scale field experiment in China”

    Paper : https://escholarship.org/uc/item/6ss13791

    Critique the policy implementation as well as suggest what I would do differently


    Unitary China employs environmental federalism to carry out central government’s mandates at
local level. For environment policies, it makes sense since political power needs to be wielded
at the level at which pollution occurs. Local governments are given discretion to prioritize and
tailor needs to the region. This discretion causes non compliance when monitoring and checks
aren’t in place. This attributes to China having 7 of the 10 highest polluted cities in the world
despite having a strong central environment policy. The central government has not been able to
keep up with monitoring this outcome nationwide. Hence even in the authoritarian setting, non
compliant cities are not pulled up for their indiscretions. NGOs have historically not been
involved for the fear of instigating collective action against the Central government. The LCS
tests NGO’s unbiased public rating on local government’s environmental activities improves
compliance. It tests for public and media sentiment to check if ratings push people to engage
more with local government. It also tests if NGO interventions causing for collective action as
public and media are now informed.

    A randomized field experiment is run and bootstrapping sampling is employed to estimate error
rate. The results are estimated to be  90% confidence intervals. Caveats that could affect the
results have been noted but not quantified. The title could have been NGOs Monitoring
Implementation by Local Governments of Central Mandates in China which is shorter and less
technical. The key insights section is missing and replaced with an abstract that doesn’t
quantify the results of the experiment.

    The ratings are already published for a group of cities deemed important by the Center. I.e.
Centers of Business, Coastal cities. Coastal and business hubs may have better NGO ties already
but they also tend to cause more pollutants. This is due to dominance of big firms, factories and
manufacturing. The LCS prefers to exclude those cities but could have incorporated a continuous
data analysis looking at before and after scores. LCS doesn’t justify choosing the high scoring
cohort. It makes sense to sample from the same level of compliance but choosing high levels is
not justified. We want to push the lower tier complaint cities to better levels. The current
methodology’s sample may be biased toward better transparency already. There is also no mention
of other confounding factors such as population, large firm dominance, manufacturing industries,
prevalence of NGOs etc. The study mentions the data collection for monitoring took 1 week, LCS
should have chosen a larger number of cities by theory of large numbers. Unless the cities were
withheld to aid further studies. The LSC does mention spillage where a province’s treatment city
caused an indirect increase in control cities. Even though cities are measuring units, we should
have looked at segregating groups at the provincial level.

    The visualizations are informative but also complex. There are the same symbols used for the
different data in Fig 2. Fig 2.b has a data heavy Y-Axis causing information overload. For Fig 3,
rather than having 4 different graphs, the information could have been compiled into one graph
chart with legends. The variant of box whisker plot chosen throughout is not as intuitive like
[4].

    Data presented in the Local and Central Government Strategies section is hard and technical
to read. It could have edited the empirical equations and only kept the subtext. LCS overtly
relies on previous case study and hence ranks vague on its methodology. LCS doesn’t account for
the authoritarian nature of China [5] impacting the news items since there is limited freedom of
press. There are two outside links not factored in. One, there is also a chance of engagement
from the public putting additional pressure on officials since there would be a fear of this
turning into a nationally scrutinized issue. Secondly, China’s environment could be under
international media scrutiny.

    The important part of this study is that it relies on transparency in measurement to
attribute to decrease in pollution. Studies that show this are cited, but we cannot correlate the
relationship from this study and we recommend adding a section in measurement for emissions in
the method. Hence I don’t think the solution is aptly responding to market failure yet. Seeing a
decrease in emissions would solve the policy problem at hand if it were related to only the
environment. There is a need to see if NGOs work in authoritarian governments, it does a good job
by demonstrating at city level. The policy problem is caused by information coordination. The
central government has the funds and is able to reprimand the local officials with demotion or
termination. The local officials have to juggle the various priorities and would often at times
do an economic vs environment trade off when handed that discretion. Hence monitoring to avoid
principal agent slippage is necessary. NGOs are useful in this regard as they are unbiased
organizations. But as noted in [5], local monitoring can sometimes cause short term improvements
at the cost of long term improvements. Hence the Central government should standardize a few
environmental processes that have been scientifically proven. There is also concern that NGO
funding may be taken away [6] , if it looks like environmental activism. Which makes NGOs depend
on the central government for funding, making them unbiased and causing a new principal agent
problem.

    I would suggest the policymaker to scale up the case study. It would also have to incorporate
the bigger cities which were excluded and perform a continuous RCT on them. We also want more
information on cities in terms of firm and manufacturing size. Funding for NGOs should be
separate from local governments or powers. Lastly policy maker should make a international
declaration of results to gain media attention. Hence we can eliminate Chinas freedom of press
limitation by putting an onus on outside entities for monitoring as well. This ensure its place
on agenda setting due to international scrutiny.


References :
1. Case Study https://escholarship.org/uc/item/6ss13791
2. Non Governmental Organization (NGO)
3. Pollution Information Transparency Index (PITI)
4. Box Whisker Plot https://datavizcatalogue.com/methods/box_plot.html
5. Green China https://newint.org/features/2019/10/16/how-green-china
6. Yale https://e360.yale.edu/features/as-it-looks-to-go-green-china-keeps-a-tight-lid-on-dissent
7. UMich Law Review https://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1401&context=mjlr
